Link to YouTube Video: https://youtu.be/6RBx0qFP-Gk

To begin, when running our project, please do the similar instructions done for the Finance pset: going to the harvardeats directory, importing an API_KEY (there is a sample API_KEY within the file titled token.txt), and typing “export API_KEY=*api key number* within the terminal. Afterwards, please run “flask run” within the terminal.

As soon as you open the website, you will be led to the login page. Please head to the register page by clicking on the ‘Register’ button (located on the top right, and may be in the drop down depending on the size of your window) if you have not already registered. You will then input your username, password, and a confirmation of your same password (requiring the password to have at least one number, one capital letter, and either an exclamation or question mark). Within our database, this password will be saved as a password hash.

Upon registering or logging in, you will be led to the homepage of our website which is accessible through both the ‘HarvardEats’ and ‘Home’ buttons in the navigation bar. You will see our header with a welcome to our website. There are four different sections of the dashboard on the home page: Budget, Your Stats, Across Campus, and Live Feed. The Budget section will tell you how much money you have left to spend and how much you have already spent eating out based on meals you have logged on our website. As a new user, your starting amount of money is $0.00. To start using the web app, use the two buttons ‘Add Money’ and ‘Log a Meal’ which will take you to the corresponding pages to add money to your budget and log meals. The second card will display your stats on your favorite restaurant(s) and what percentile you are of all users on the website based on your spending habits. You can also click the ‘Past Meals’ button to see a log of all the meals you have eaten. The third card is the Across Campus card which has a pie chart of the restaurants that people eat at most often (showing the top five restaurants and grouping all others within the other section). When hovering over the pie chart, you will be able to see the restaurant and number of meals eaten at that restaurant across all users. Additionally, there is a ‘Schedule a Meal’ button which will lead you to our Schedule a Meal page with When2Meet embedded so that you can schedule a time to have a meal with your friends. All the previous buttons mentioned are also accessible within the navigation bar’s MyEats drop down which will take you to the corresponding pages. The last card contains a Live Feed of the five most recent meals users have logged, including the restaurant, how much they spent, and when they logged the meal. As a user, your own logged meals will not show up in the Live Feed table.

Following our navigation bar, you can press ‘About’ to take you to our About page. Here we describe our mission at HarvardEats with a photograph of the three founders (Audrey, Jessica, and Heather). We state our problem (students eating out often), our solution (our website), and the features of our website (tracking your spending, scheduling meals, and comparing your spending with others).

Let’s log a meal now. Press the ‘Log a Meal’ button (through the navigation bar in the MyEats dropdown or the home page). When logging a restaurant, you have a drop down list of many different restaurants within Harvard Square. As you type, restaurants will be filtered by your input. Then, you will input the cost of your meal, only accepting numbers. Press the ‘Log’ button and you will then be told how much you spent and your balance left. If you spent exactly your account balance or more than your account balance, you will be told and that you should either add money (linked to Add Money page) or eat at HUDS (linked to HUDS website).

To add money, press the ‘Add Money’ button (through the navigation bar in the MyEats dropdown or the home page). Here, you can input the amount of money you want to add to your budget (only accepting integer values). Once you click the ‘Add’ button, there will be a confirmation of how much you added to your account.

Note that the above two actions will automatically update your dashboard on the homepage in both the Budget and Your Stats sections! The Past Meals page will update as well.

Once again, both the Past Meals and Schedule a Meal pages can be accessed through the navigation bar in the MyEats dropdown or the home page. The Past Meals page provides a table of all the meals you have logged and the Schedule a Meals page lets you schedule a When2Meet that you can send to friends.

When you are done, you can keep your account signed in or log out through the ‘Log Out’ button located at the top right of the page.

We hope HarvardEats will help you with your avoidance of HUDS, one meal at a time :)
